We
had begun on this campus to develop a more than
casual interaction with the Corvette
Corporation. They were routinely here trying to
sell us a big computer. And through the flow of
many, many pulled out people through the Martin
family in Texas, they have learned about India.
They were intrigued. Word had gotten back to the
CDC. So I was invited
to come up and meet Bill Morris, the author who
described the Invit program, and visit their,
what they call their BDC, Spitz Technologies.
That meeting had been set up, and About the time
Bart Henson
came
here as chancellor, I told
him that I was the one that he got very interested
in. At any rate, he went with me. And so he and I went
out for him to see Bill Norris in Warfare and some of
the top officers in Central Valley. And I
described the Invincible to him. And all this
related to our own the evolving research part,
which I had co-chaired, or vice-chaired, the
committee on the
research part with Chancellor Hubert, who was
then the chairman. But anyway,
the MCC document was out, or coming out, and I got an
advance copy of the announcement. because of
having
established
that relationship
with the man and the company that was the creator of
the idea. We had agreed to host here on this campus
the, probably the fourth, third or fourth or
fifth, I forget the number, by any conference on
university, industry, government, microwave
products. It was a conference that the IEEE
had initiated, one part of the IEEE had initiated,
oh, six or eight, maybe now ten years ago. And I'd
been involved in that. Indeed, I'd structured the
first one of them. At the time, I was on the
administrative committee of the the division of
the IEEE that got us started. And we just turned out
going to have it at Texas A&M. I guess that was last
year, the year before last, whatever the year was
that MCC was to come. Well, I'd ask Bill Norris,
because I knew he was a pivotal player in the
evolution of MCC. commit to having whoever was
going to be president of MCC be the keynote speaker
for our conference, our University of the
Ministry of Government Michael O'Connor
Symposium here. And he said he would. So before Bob
Inman ever became president of MCC, he was
committed unknowingly to come here to be the
keynote speaker at our conference. Well, the MCC
thing moved. They did all of their interviews.
Mark White went to the Hyatt Hotel in Chicago
repair. That was in March of 1983.
Don Walker and Art Hanson met as the chancellors of
the UT A&M system. I knew well of the need, thought
for a while I was going to have to go because Art
Hanson had a conflict. He was able to work that
conflict out and go on. I remember all this weather
well because I was hitting, supposedly, with my
family on a spring break trip to Utah. I was asked on
the day of the meeting to sit by the phone in the
condo in case there were any technical questions
that came up. I remember well sitting in the... You
still have to go to Utah. Oh, yeah, but one day I
missed the day of the meeting. I sat by the fire and
watched the snow fall and waited to see if the phone
rang in case there was any need. So that happened in
March
of 1983. Through that sequence of interviews, the
MCC thing then narrowed down to four cities,
one of which was Austin.
The governor called the meeting one Sunday
evening, probably.
I look back at my calendar and get the date. But here
in sometime last year, before MCC made their
forced march, as Inman put it, through the four
cities, which were, what, San Diego, Atlanta,
Raleigh, Durham, North Carolina, and Austin,
Texas.
He picked by some mechanism, I'm not sure what,
about 20 people to come over one Sunday evening to
talk about the strategy of how we
should
get ready to compete. Some of the obvious reasons
players that were there,
at least for me. Henry Cisneros, whose
presentation in Chicago had been better than
anybody's, so stated by MCC. But they couldn't go
to San Antonio because there wasn't a major
university there that they could draw. And that
was the only reason. Otherwise, San Antonio would
have had it. I was there in R. Hanson's behalf. He
had a conflict that he could not get out of, and so he
asked me to go and represent the A&M system.
Don Walker was there representing the UT system.
He and I met, Walker and I met in his office about an
hour beforehand. to explore how UT and A&M would
cooperate in this venture, which was probably the
first meeting of its kind in history. And an
interesting meeting, and I've grown to be quite
fond of Don Walker for no other reason than just
based on that opportunity to begin to talk about
how we'd work together. We really just said, you
know, Gee, we'll just go in and tell them, UT and A&M
are going to back this deal, whatever's required,
and see how it goes. And I thought I might basically
follow his lead, since it was in Austin. It was the
city, not College Station.
We'll now tie together the other piece of the story
for me. Because as we met, we were only about three
weeks away. I don't know, a short time away from
this conference here in A&M. The brochures were
printed, the speakers were there, and the
announcement was Bobby Inman, president of MCC,
keynote speaker. And I took several of those with
me that night to distribute among the people that
were there.
Tease's role in attracting MCC became rather
obvious to the people sitting in that room that
night. None of them had any idea, first of all, that
the conference was there. Secondly, that
arrangements had already been made for the
president of MCC, who had only been on board a very
short period of time, was the keynote speaker.
I've never told them how that was arranged, by the
way. Not for any reason other than it's just never
been the opportunity to tell them. But I always
will remember the impact that had that evening
when I passed out those
brochures in the conference.
As
it turned out, on the personal side of the thing,
part of the, that was personally satisfying, and
that's why, and that's obvious that that would be.
I was, at that time, again, on my way to Saudi
Arabia. I had been asked by the University of
Petroleum and Minerals and by Dr. Pickering, who
was the previous director of the Department of
Culture, who had spent two years building a
research institute, not December, at the
University of Petroleum and Minerals in Dairon. I
had been asked to join Dr. Pickering in spending
two weeks there reviewing the research program of
this research institute and was on my way the next
week.
At the same time frame the advanced scout team of
MCC was to come to Texas and we were planning that
evening what and who they should see. already
rescheduled this trip to Saudi Arabia once, maybe
twice, I'm not sure. And I said to the governor that
evening, I said, well, you know, if we decide that I
personally need to be
present for that visit, then clearly, obviously,
the project has to go home, rescheduled, or just
canceled. Perot, Ross Perot, said, well, look,
couldn't you just go by and meet Bobby? I said, I
still haven't met him.
He said, could you swing by Washington on your way
to study? And meet him.
Just leave a day early. Because I was flying out of
New York anyway. I said, yes, I can meet him. I would
not be concerned
about having to be there unless we
just felt like an administrative or political
business or whatever. Ross Perot's request or
suggestion or demand or whatever Ross does, that I
go on the way to Saudi and meet him. So I didn't. So I
just left here a day early, flew into D.C. met with
Perot, I mean, met with him over in Arlington,
Virginia for, well, less than a half an hour. And I
asked him if he had any questions he wanted to ask
about Texas and why NCC was going to come. And he
grinned
and said, no, not really. He, uh,
He had his scout team out. He wasn't playing it as he
should have. He said, is there anything that you
want to tell me? And I said, well, Texas is where you
need to be. And if you should make the mistake of not
locating physically in Texas, you're still going
to find yourself deep in Texas. Because we've got,
in our Institute for Solid State Electronics, the
talent and the research capability that you're
going to have to access sooner or later.
And he said, OK.
And then I gave him a copy of
the conference brochure where he was going to
speak. He didn't know that already. Yeah, he
didn't know that already. He said, yes, I have that
on my calendar. And I said, well, I thought you
might like to have a copy of this. It's probably in
the mail to you right now, but I left him with a
couple more and
thanked him for accepting so graciously to do it.
And I told him we were excited about him coming
down. We had a nice, brief, but to the point visit.
He left to go testify to some Senate hearing
committee, and I left to go to Saudi Arabia. I
extended to him at the time, probably when he came
we'd have a little dinner for him. We got together
and I'd introduce him to some of these key players
in this microelectronics business. And then he
would meet many of them at the conference from all
over the country. If he came in the night before the
conference that we hosted in the house and invited
some key researchers, the doers, the brains, the
hat dogs, so that he could meet them in Portland,
which I did.
But I believe that conference actually occurred
after the decision
was made for them to come to Texas.
Because they moved on that decision very quickly.
But we hosted in the Batch Scout team a number of MCC
people here on campus. They visited our solid
state institute. Our larger MicroLocunt
program, which has now grown in the EE division of
TEAS to be run as a substitute interaction, we now
have had, as you're probably aware, a design
program linked with Texas Instruments that's now
four years old. All of that was up and running.
Again, we weren't talking about what we were
getting ready to do. We were showing examples of
product designs that have been reduced to
practice. the
students that were coming out the door. I think it
played a measurable role in the university. And
so, the governor thought something. I read the
article in the paper where he cited the groups that
he's been close to and just gave the credit to the
team, and he didn't give it to anyone. Well, I got a
lot of calls from Houston
alumni when that article hit about, hey, you can't
let them get away with this, because otherwise it
will become history. So it was, I thought, very
appropriate what the governor had to say. Was that
said at the end, after you contacted him, or was
this something that... You wouldn't think I wrote
what you got, I have to say. It sounded like you'd
gotten on the phone and said, hey, you know. As a
matter of fact, we did.
Of course, he wouldn't have put it out again. No
way. Now, he had to say it. Well, as I said, UT and
Texas A&M cooperating on something. I think this
was the big spark. It was the first, and we knocked
it out of the park. Absolutely. You can't quarrel
with the success of what impression it made on MCC
as an industry. And that these two major
university systems were prepared to work
together to get them to company. Otherwise it
would have been bloody. As is normal. How do you
administratively go about doing
away with a particular area of research that has
become frivolous? Well,
every idea, every product, every person
has a life, a predictable life. Some live longer
than others. But the signs that it's over here, are
usually
pretty obvious. If we have a research division
whose time has come to be terminated, the first
sign of that is that nobody wants to support the
research
division. Another sign of it is that
Even if resources are available,
that is what I call seed dollars or T's, typically
the kind of money you put in when you're creating to
do with the seed if it makes sense. You measure it
pretty much the same way you do in the beginning.
You've got an idea of an area that you feel is
important and should go, so you put some money in.
And you support that concept by bringing in the
right people, by building the right facilities,
by buying the right equipment. And you nurture
them. And then you see if they grow and they're
healthy. And if they do, they bloom into something
meaningful. And that's measured by their peers,
not only at their own institution, but throughout
the world. by how well their work is received in
their own profession, their professional
societies and professional journals. And it's
measured by their ability to compete with their
peers.
And they're all in that entity. You're sticking
with your question. How do you decide when it's
time for an entity or a division or an area to
terminate? Well, the analogy I'm trying to draw is
the same way, you know, if a baby's born and you
nourish it, you coddle it, and it dies,
something's wrong with it. It didn't grow into a
healthy being. that could defend itself, that
could take care of itself, that could get kicked
out of the nest, could go to college by itself,
could learn on its own, could wash its own clothes,
could compete with his peers for a valedictorian
spot or the best job or position or what he wanted to
do. If you'll let me personify a little bit, the
entity itself functions the same way. If you put
$50,000 into a microelectronics idea in 1968 and
it isn't ready to play on the team at the national
level of bringing MCC to Texas,
we probably would have never been there in the
first place. I'd say that one worked. But we put
money into ideas before that didn't catch.
urban affairs.
We moved it, transferred it, you know, took it off
the symbol act, put it on goat's milk, took it off
the goat's milk, put it on the, you know, tried it in
this environment, in that environment, gee, it
looked like it was doing good for a while, and oops,
you know, went pale again. We're running an
experiment right now, a dramatic experiment, and
that's in me. No idea how that's going to work.
We're nurturing it, feeding it, coddling it,
exposing it to this, that, and the other. But it's
got to grow up and stand on its own
feet. Well, if an entity that's been healthy, been
working, been doing those things that are clear
and obvious signs of health, of being meaningful
and contributing to it. If it begins to get sick by
whatever symptoms you use to measure, and you use
all of those, then you analyze if
administratively, has the administration
gotten in the way? Kind of come back to your other
question. Have you done something stupid? that's
caused a problem, or has the technology matured
that it represented to a point that the need for
further research and development
is just no longer there? That's recently happened
in the remote cities. You redefined that. That's
right. But see, NASA, when John Rouse took over the
remote sensing, remote sensing as a technology
application in space,
defining what it would do, how it would do it, was at
its infancy. Now, routine. Launch them, let them
read. We lost the NASA support. Not because we
weren't any good anymore, but because they had
what they
needed. And so we've turned a corner. That's
natural. It's change. But you have to, the
greatest mistake the administration has made, I
think, is not to be willing to do it. Not to want to do
it. Not to treat it as progress, as natural. But
want the status quo, want to preserve what you know
how to do. It's traumatic. It's traumatic on
people's lives. It's traumatic, you know, I've
got to reprint a new brochure and take the damn
thing out of there. There are a lot of traumatic
things about making change. So if you're not
willing to deal with that or don't want to deal with
that or don't want to be bothered with that, that's
when I think the administrative structure gets in
the way. Not when you go in and you say to the head of
one of those divisions, It's not performing well.
Hey, your division's not performing very well.
What's wrong? Do you need some help? Are we in the
way? Is it the administration's fault? Or have you
got a problem with what you're doing and the need
for it? Do you need to reassess where you're going
and how you're going to get there? I think the
administration's responsibility, I feel my
responsibility as a director is just to answer the
questions.
And if I find somebody that doesn't want to answer
them, demand that they be answered and come down
hard enough with whatever I've got to come down
with to be sure that we, together, then come to an
agreement and an understanding of what we're
doing and what it's costing to do and is it worth the
cost. Now, TEAS tries to make all the research
divisions pay. Besides seed money? Yeah,
typically, indeed this year, I just got this
letter back yesterday from the Governor's Budget
Office and the Legislative Budget Office
approving the new format. Which I think makes a lot
of sense and makes it easier to explain it to the
average layman, which is what you deal with in the
political process. Why is TEAS existing and why do
the taxpayers Why should the taxpayer pay? Why
should we be taxed off? Essentially, I'm trying to
break it down in an evolutionary cycle in three
stages. And that's the startup program. And Ben is
a good example. And in a startup program, that
program, we have to be, we ETs, we the taxpayers,
prepared to pay 100% of the cost.
And what I want to be able to do is to say clearly to
the legislature, that is, that entity that
represents the clerk checking groceries out
there, throwing some of her cash or his cash into
the coffers, that here's why I believe this
program makes sense. is going to help our society
as a whole in Texas by doing this. And we need to be
prepared collectively to put our money into debt
servicing. And that's a startup
program. Depending upon the complexity of that
program, the market it serves, its objectives,
on the average, I would say, a startup program
would evolve a developing
in about three years at which point if it's
catching on if it's really working or beginning to
work like we felt it would it will be returning it
will be earning dollar for dollar
and then when it matures or becomes established,
it will bring in to the state $4 for every $1 we pay
for an annual basis. That is, you'll get a 400% per
annum return.
That's on the average. Hence, to answer your
question, On the average, TEAS sets as a target for
an established, mature, meaningful program that
it should generate 80%
of its budget. We do have programs that do it. Sure.
And I have programs that For every dollar we put in,
it ran
30 times.
But it's
more of a service to the system. That's right. We
don't even treat those divisions of kids like
that, because a service division is created
for that purpose. And if a service division can
break even, you deal with it. And the service
divisions include the DPC and the Nuclear Science
Center? DPC, Nuclear Science Center, and the
Injury Counseling. That's really a
high-precision
model. The DPC, of course, is no longer
quarantined. We did it September. We moved it to
the university. There's a nuclear science center
still. The nuclear science center functions
under the division, the service division of the
DPC. Although at the request of the head of the
Nuclear Engineering Division two years ago,
maybe
three, the desire to integrate the Nuclear
Science Center more into the research program of
the Nuclear Engineering Division, we have the
Nuclear Science Center reporting to this office
through the Nuclear Engineering Division.
That's right. Well, it's a controlling your own
destiny thing. It's not a service center that they
don't feel like they have as much control over. And
in my mind, it makes sense. But then that puts a lot
of pressure on the nuclear engineer to be sure that
the nuclear reactor does indeed do
the research that it would like to have it for and
that it participates more in as a research program
than a service center. and generates the
meaningful, valuable results
to the citizens
of this state to justify the cause they're
operating in. You said the data processing center
transferred in September. Is that this year or
next year? Does it come in September? No, it was
patched up in September. Besides the
dissemination
of information and PR that Benson and others told
you to prosecute
in Canada, are there any other clues they gave to
you as to what
areas they felt please them to do that? Well, that
was the key hurdle from Fred Benson. Others,
if you read our Target 2000 study, which kind of
followed
the Texas study, the citizens of this state were
asked to come in and review the purpose, goals,
and objectives of the NU system. and taking
advantage of the opportunities they have to serve
the needs of Texas. To get a greater presence in the
metropolitan area would be one of the challenges
and objectives set forth for Texas. Or to create a
presence in the area where the people are to make it
easier to access the capabilities. That's one of
the directives
that's come forward. One of the ones I sent for this
agency that I felt strongly about coming into this
office and still do is the International.
I
believe that, particularly with our neighbors,
Mexico and Canada, but not limited to Canada. The
world isn't what it used to be. It's a small place.
Is this something you held before Vanderbilt came
out as a global university? Oh, sure. That's where
I was going to China in 1979, Russia in 1977, Saudi
Arabia last year. So you were very connected to the
sky. He coincided rather well. He was having my
teeth. And we worked pretty hard at that. We don't
have any MCC examples. We
have some satisfying experiences, but nothing
that needs to happen. When Tease first started, he
had a large education role in the Education
Act. How has that changed since
you've been here, or has it changed? I think it's
increased. The role Tease plays by encouraging
and supporting the church and its ability to do
that. And probably with my willingness,
one of the, what you would call radical movements
in the current, since I've been the director and
I'm the vice-director, as they say, is
that TEAS has had new interdisciplinary
divisions open up, interacting
with the College of Business, Global Arms, GSN,
and Education. First of all, it scared the College
of Engineering to death, because they saw, or
thought they saw, resources going out. Now
this
is all perception. But very accurate perception.
Oh, I guess all this is actually documented.
for a lot of very real
and good reasons. From an administrative and
financial standpoint, because of state laws,
state funding,
etc. But it was a difficult decision for
the university to make. And I was not prepared to
make that decision unilaterally. In all of those
decisions,
the deans of those colleges came to me with a
request to create a tax revision. I asked for
proposals of why they thought it made sense, other
than we might
have some resources in the faculty, and discussed
at length with them. how we would do, what role the
technology and engineering represents would
play in the research and in the disciplines that
they represent. And why they felt this
integration, this interdisciplinary
approach, would be valuable. I had my own opinions
from day one, which were pro that approach that
caused me to listen to them. But once I got all of
that
in front of them,
and all of this didn't happen at once, it came in
stages. The first one we moved to was the College
of Business, and it would have been started
because of income. One of the small movements of
our business. But at that time, the College of
Business didn't have no insurance. Zero. That
Texas A&M University never had no service.
We
created a division of business and technology
three years ago now. That's different from the
industrial development division that was part of
the strategic division. Yeah, that's that urban
affairs thing I told you about. I moved that deal
around, you know, finally into the business
technology division. It's been absorbed in that.
That kind of research, and that's the work long.
Like, I never figured it out. You'll see, it was one
of the first major teams. Yeah, outside of your
classical engineering. Yeah, right. And it was,
you know, thriving. That's right. That's right.
And the urban need, you see, was there. And then the
deal fell off. And it was very difficult to figure
out what to do with it. And then it went into
strategic technology. But the Center for
Strategic Technology has evolved primarily into
the strategic military-related technology,
political technologies of the world, not the
strategic sewer and prime and urban planning
technology of cities. which the business people
really have a talent for doing. They can draw in an
interdisciplinary way the civil engineers and
sanitary engineers, environmental engineers,
those kinds of impacts that studies of strategic
technologies of the urban community or the
industrial development might need. So those have
merged now? Those are all merged and that focus of
the search happens in the
business technology.
How have different state,
national, or international
events affected communities in terms of massive
amounts of funding, cutbacks in funding,
particular types of programs? Oh, that's ongoing
all the time. Constantly. And It's because that
you have to realize that that's always there,
particularly in the research business. Above all
other businesses, the research, whatever you
want to call it, business, game, process,
research is by its own nature very dynamic. Yet
when you...
Its value to society is measured by society in
different ways. And the ability to do it is
determined by society's overall quality.
The first thing that disappears in a hard time
human
nature. The first thing that you do away with in
your personal life when you have to go into a budget
squeeze for whatever reason caused it, is what you
would otherwise define as the luxury zone. You may
defer buying a new car, drive the old, long car,
whatever. Research
is the feedback, really.
in the productivity cycle. That is, it lives off of
the profits of society. You can model all of the
whole world as just an industry.
If it doesn't have the leisure time, if it hasn't
managed itself in a productive way, then there
just might not be time to think. And hence how
you're going to lose But
if an industry doesn't produce enough resources
to pay through its manufacturing process and its
sales and marketing, its production, you won't
have any resources to create your research
division. And you don't do research in
production.
So these economic cycles that you're referring to
occur.
Some, from the philosophy, have a change of
administration. They don't
like that kind of thing. But they like this kind of
thing. Reagan comes in and we need more defense, so
the DOD's budget comes in.